---
{
  "title": "AI",
  "tags": ["en", "ai"],
  "publishdate": "2025-11-26 10:00:00"
}
---

Ofcourse, I need to have an opinion on todays hot topic: AI.

Recently, a colleague, who became a friend, discussed his usage of AI with me.
Which also triggered me to think more about it. And I realised that I don't 
have the urge to use AI for the time being.

Before I start, I want to make clear that this is purely my own opinion, not 
what I think that everybody should apply. It's based on my own experience.

When ChatGPT was still a fancy tool used by the hyper geek, who always want to
test latest trends, I didn't payed a lot of attention to it. However I did 
worked before "AI" was a thing, with it's predecessor "machine learning", where
you upload some pictures and the algoritm (which is also a fancy hyped word of
this era as well) will tell you what's in the picture, you give it an address 
or city and it will give you the rent/buy prices of properties, cctv takes your 
picture and compares it with pictures in database and matches with x percent 
accuracy and stuff like that.

It was amazing, but the algoritm was still a mistery, so I was kind of 
curious about what was behind. But didn't searched it at that time. 

When ChatGPT was there, I tested the webclient with silly questions and that
was it and didn't used it (or any other AI tool) anymore(directly). Today,
without noticing it, we are all using AI in one way or another, so we are using
it indirectly.

Some developers used AI tools, integrated them in their dev environment, forced
themself to use it for a period (a week, month, a project, ...), then shared
their experiences. It was very interesting, but still wasn't enough to
convince me to use it myself. I did try to convince myself to use it (pay
extra attention to "try to convince"). But didn't take any steps to use it. 

Followed some AI related news/blogposts, but still it was always like 2 sides:
You are absolutely FOR or AGAINST AI! Like every subject. 

To make it clear, I'm not for or against AI at all. I love technology, so I'm
totally for using all the tools in your possession to make life (or at least
your life) easier, not harder. But I'm also for enjoying life, even if it will
make it slightly harder, but more fun. And most of all, I'm more for 
privacy and freedom.

What do I mean by that. I'm for usage of AI, the more people use it, the more
it will learn, but most of the AI is hosted on large infrastructures of big 
corporations, that benefit from your personal information. And most people will
get used to those AI tools, and start sharing (knowingly or unknowingly) some
private info, and those info can be used to benefit you, or benefit the company
or the ones who will pay to benefit from you. 

Secondly, I learned (or unlocked) a part of myself, if I want to do something 
(like learning, trying, ...), I love to do it the hard way. In that way, I 
learned and loved using split keyboard, (neo)vim, linux base commands, renovate
kitchen and bathroom, be able to fix plumbing, setup private home-automation, 
talk to strangers, ...

Third, I love to use my keyboard to write, it can be anything (writing code, an
article, message, ..., I even write every time the ending of my mails the "kind
regards..."-part). And I also still love to think about the actions I take, and
don't really like to just copy paste something that I'm given. one clear
example is: when I code, I try 5 different ways, before searching for an answer
in Stackoverflow, even when I found the solution there, I will write it myself
instead of copy pasting the code, and I will try to find help pages or
documentation(github, npmjs, man-pages) about the code I'm writing.
I always close the autofill/suggestions from chat applications, so I try to
come up with the word I intent to say myself, if I don't know how to write it
down, I will lookup in google, I write my sentences as correct as possible, if 
I write it incorrect, I hope the person that I'm talking to will correct me,
over and over again, until I don't make that error anymore.

By using AI, I've the feeling that I'm delegating the important stuff, that I
love to do, to something/someone else. I'm not learning (or I'm unlearning) 
those things I love to excel at. But I know that I need to try it one day, to
have the experience myself, and see if I will start loving other/new things,
while passing the things I currently love to AI. I just don't have the urge or
motivation to start using AI yet. Once I'll start having the motivation, then
I'm sure I will force myself to use it.

Lastly, I just think that AI is not mature enough as they portray it in the
media, and it will take some time to become really mature. Also it is in a
"hype-thingy" stage, so when the hype is over there will be a second or
"reviving-hype" stage. Once that is also over it will start to really grow and
become more mature to integrate it (not just in IT) in our lives.

So those are my conclusions:

- do I fear to missing out? no
- do I need to invest my energy in it? currently no, in near future maybe, 
  in future, yes
- do I like the "old" way of doing stuff? absolutely
- will AI take control over humans? nope
- will AI replace jobs? in future yes, even a lot of IT related jobs
- replacing jobs is it bad? nope, we need to think of new jobs
- what will I suggest to someone interested in AI? 
  - if you are curious and motivated, please learn AI and use it, try to 
    integrate it as much as your motivation goes, and share your findings with 
    everyone. 
  - if you're interested, watch some AI stuff, search information about it
    to see if you find any motivation to go deeper.
  - if you are just interested, but you know you don't have motivation, don't
    wast a lot of time in it and follow the things that motivates you and you
    love to do.

AI is just another trending topic, that will become a part in our life, but not
today. Enjoy life the way you want. I love the curiosity, and excelling at
things I love to do, so I will keep doing those things, even if it is harder to
do, while AI can just do it in seconds.

This was just my opinion, I wanted to write down (also forcing myself to write
blogpost like diary from time to time). I know people have their own opinions,
facts, believes which are not the same as mine, feel free to send me your
opinions about it, I'm very pleased to read them.

Kind regards

