---
{
  "title": "Identity on internet",
  "tags": ["en", "opinion", "identity", "age-verification"],
  "publishdate": "2025-11-27 09:00:00"
}
---

This is more of a rant, I already wrote about this in January this year,
but never published it...

Forcing people to identify themself on internet is totaly absurd. I'm against
it. Especially because our policies, national and international, sucks. I live
in Europe, so we have the GDPR, but what does it mean? Nobody knows exactly.
"Right to disapear" some would say, so you send a mail to a company, they are
forced to give your data to you and need to remove all info related to you from
ALL their systems. But does it happen? I don't think so, even if the audit,
they had, "proved" that they are "working on it", or "they actually remove". 
How do you check that. I did create an account on Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook,
Instagram, Whatsapp, Google, ... I deleted some, then recreated, then polluted,
then deleted, ... but lastly the created accounts, I didn't bother to delete
them, I don't use them anymore, so the accounts exists, but I can't access or
I didn't logged in for a very long time.

So they created GDPR, but at the same time, they intruduced KYC, which is a bs
abbreviation, it stand for "Know your customer", which is at first introduced
in financial world (that I know of). To buy a coin, you need to verify to 
whatever service, it can also be a scammer. Then they expanded it to nearly all
services that exists on the internet.

Currently I only use Signal as chat app. Most of my friends, families, 
colleagues, ... are not using it, and try to convince me to go back to
Whatsapp. Even if I tell them, why I don't want to use, and why I don't trust
it. Still they are trying, and the most bs comment I get is "everybody is using
it, why are you doing like you are special, and just use it too". Until they
see something bad happened at Meta (or any other big company). Then they
try to tell me the things I told them, like it is the first time they heared
it. So I gave up on explaining why I don't use it, why I don't trust it, and
act kind of stupid (like "ohhh, I didn't know, how they can do such a thing").
If you want to use any service, do it, I'm not the one to tell you not to use
it, but don't try to put pressure on me to also use the "awesome app" you are
really fond of and that everybody is using.

Then, there is media, which is a weapon. And the one controlling it will tell
and convince a lot of people. Like I said, I use Signal. When someone asks me
how they can contact me, I give my number, and ask if they use or want to use
Signal (most of the time, they don't want to install another app). And some
people tell me the exact same bs the media is telling everybody "Do you have
something to hide, why are you using this shady app".
So if you tell people that you use Tor, DarkWeb, Telegram, Signal, Session,
host your own mailserver, ... they associate those with criminal activities. 
When you create a social profile on Facebook or Twitter, ... with fake
accounts. Again, why are you trying to hide your identity, are you doing some
shady things? Are you catfishing, ...

Back to my main topic, those are also little things that got normalized. Giving
up your identity on internet is normal, so you show to everyone that you don't
hide anything. Well... until shit hits the fan. Until the things you share with
the world is used against you, for whatever reason. To manipulate you to buy
things, to charge you for something you said 15 years ago, to "cancel" you, ...

For me internet was a place to do whatever you want, without someone looking
over your shoulders. I don't know when, we gave that up and I really hate it.

LinkedIn forces me to accept the new TOS, if I don't accept it, I can't login
to my account, so I decide to remove it completely, to be able to remove it, I
need to provide real identity evidence, then I can remove it.

I drive a car with Android Automotive, forces me to use GoogleMaps, only 
alternative I can use is Waze (which is also owned by Google). To be able to
install anything, I need to login with a Google Account, so I create one,
after 1-2 days, the account gets logged out, I can't login with that account
on my car. Then I try it on a computer, and search the internet, why this is
happening, and I need to identity myself, provide real evidence of my age and 
country I live in, so they know "I'm legally old enough to drive a car".

The school my kid is going uses Facebook private group to share school
pictures, I tried to create an account, but during account creation I need to
provide real evidence, with id card or driver license and video/picture of me
holding a paper with todays date on it.

And ofcourse, the Chat Control Act they wanted to deploy on EU as well.
Which I'm totally against it. You are going to force every citizen to give out
their info to you, meanwhile, you (as government or state) are the exception
to talk privately with whomever you want, because you can have "some national
secrets".

The explanation is always the same, "we do it to catch criminals and make your
life more secure". I know that it is absolutely not for security.

Let me tell you why it isn't for catching criminals, but more for controling
the citizens. Who did fund the "freedom fighters", that turned up to be 
terrorist organizations? Who were the connections of the worlds nr 1 sex 
trafficer? Where did they find the millions of Euros in suitcases? Those 
weren't the citizens you want to impose the Chat Control on.

I hope that more and more people will be able to break from the cycle where you
need to sacrifice your freedom, your identity, your privacy to just get some 
short term convenience. This is what I hope for.
But deep down, I know that it has always been like this, and will continue to
be like this. At least, we can be sceptical about anything that is pushed to
us. The question "Why" is very powerfull, just don't be shy to ask that
question a lot, even if they tell you that is forbidden.

When I started to ask the question "why", a lot of things became easier to
understand, I made a lot of progress in life itself, much became clear to me.
It is not easy to ask, but we al start curious as kids. So we already have it
in ourselves, just need to find that curiosity back.

This is a lot of ranting for one day. Hopefully the weekend will the sun shine,
so we can enjoy it.

Kind regards








