---
{
  "title": "Life",
  "tags": ["en", "life"],
  "publishdate": "2025-11-05 18:00:00"
}
---

Life feels fun, life feels hard, life sucks, life is beautifull. Whatever 
you're feeling right now. Life is happening.

Sometimes I feel down, I don't know why. Those days feels like everything is 
collapsing, everyone is annoying, nobody can bring you to light. You feel 
like drowning. But one thing I noticed, on those days, even when it's hard, 
there are some little things, someone or something that will fire the sparkle 
of hope.

- I felt down, first day I arrived at my new job, that day I saw the 
  beautifull smile of a sunshine. Everyday I went to work, it just made my day.
- I gave up the joy of programming, I found ThePrimeagen, he made me love 
  back programming.
- I love music but, can't play. I saw my beautifull sister play music with 
  her guitar. Made me learn notes and cords.
- ...

Most of those things happened when I felt depressed. Life just took me down so 
hard, at the same time, life gave me this little sparkle of hope. That little 
sparkle just got bigger and let me do awesome thing.

I will admit that there were times that I wouldn't notice those sparkles. I 
know that lots of people are strugling with them too. Asking what's the 
purpose of living in this depressing world, just know that there is someone 
who wants to listen. World is a dangerous place, making it easy, making it 
livable, making it comfortable is at our own hands.

Don't think that there isn't anyone who wants to listen to you, there is, even
when it's hard, just try to look beyond the fog. You won't regret it.

Just don't forget that nobody will feel the same as you do. But it doesn't 
mean that they can't understand or that they can't just listen to you. Try to 
share the weight on your shoulders with those who care about you. 

I know that life isn't easy, and not everyone gets the same chances, but hey
if you don't get them, create your own path, which will unlock more exiting
new things that you can explore in your own life.

Know that every night will be followed by day. Those feeling will fade with 
time and more cheerfull days will follow them. I hope from the bottom of my 
heart that you will see that little sparkle of hope during those times, and
that you will grow stronger.

If you feel like you need to talk, just send mail to hey@ayt.ac

Kind regards
